A case said let's take a look at the rules for first novel form and an example of how we can get our
tables to adhere to the rules in first normal form.
So what is first normal form.
So the tables are in first normal form.
If there's no repeated rows of data in that table if the columns only contain a single value and if
the table has a primary key.
So if we have two rows of data in our table then it's not in first normal form.
If any of the columns contain more than one valley then is not in a single form and if the table doesn't
have a primary key then is also not in first form.
I'm a member.
Primary Key is a column or a set of columns which uniquely identifies that row.
So it doesn't have to be one column.
It could be a combination of more than one column.
So let's have a look at an example table.
So here we have a student table and it has the student name the year they're in and any classes they
take.
So is this table in first normal form.
Well we can see straightaway that is not.
So we can see we have poodle's in year 11 class math entered twice into this table.
So we have G.P.A. rows of data.
And also we can see we have more than one value assigned to the class column for Brian Cox and Linda
marsh.
So we have English and chemistry comma separated for Brian and we have math history and biology for
Linda.
So this table really does not follow first normal form.
So the question is what can we do to make sure that this table follows First no form well straightaway
we can remove the duplicate.
Dawson entry into our table.
And secondly we can split the class entries for Brian Cox and DeMoss in more than one row.
So you can see instead of having English in chemistry for Brian Cox in one column we have a row for
Brian Cox English and a row for Brian Cox chemistry.
And then we have free rows for Linda Marsh and three classes and we also have a primary key which is
the student column plus the Clauss column.
So this is all a unique identifier for this table.
Student column plus Clauss column.
And now you can see that this table does follow first normal form.
So we have a primary key.
We have no repeated rows of data and we have no column with more than one value.
Now you could argue that this actually increases the data redundancy and you would be correct because
we have.
BRIAN COX Yeah a to twice and we have Linda Marsh years seven to three times into this table whereas
before we just had it entered once for Brian Cox and once for Linda marsh.
But this is only the first level of normalization.
And our data is better organized.
We have no columns with multiple values in our table.
So that's it for normalizing our tables so that they follow the first normal form.
Now the first normal form is fairly simple compared to second normal form and third normal form.
So next let's move on to the second level of normalization.